---
layout: post
title:  "My Favorite Pens"
date:   2019-07-23 10:12:04 -0400
categories: tech
---

So, for those of you who don’t know...I’ve got quite a pen addiction. Like pencils are nice and I can appreciate the Blackwing design but really I just buy a gigantic pack of Bic mechanical pencils and Ticonderoga pencils. It’s literally been years and I haven’t finished them yet. A good pencil is nice, but I just don’t have strong feelings on them. My pens though, I’ve got quite an attachment to my pens.  

Anyway, I don’t have an exact favorite because it changes pretty frequently with me but I would recommend anything that I namedrop in this list.  

I’m starting off with a fountain pen because it stands alone in this list. I feel like I should be more into fountain pens, but oddly enough I’m just not. I really enjoy using them - I keep one on my desk for when I’m writing a little more fancily but I can’t bring myself to use it for daily use. I feel like I seem like a fountain pen kind of person. The idea of putting in investment into an everyday product for greater pleasure in ordinary actions seems like something I would be into. It feels a lot like the way I’m into mechanical keyboards. Alas, this is still a special occasions only type of thing. That being said, of course I had to go with something cheap since I’m not putting a ton of money into something I don’t use often. And for under $15, my pick has to be the [Pilot Metropolitan](<https://amzn.to/2Y5BteY>). The body is smooth and feels nice in the hand. There are dozens of designs to choose from and it definitely looks and feels more expensive than it actually is, especially because of its metal build. Unlike the Pilot Varsity (which is a disposable fountain pen), this one is truly a fountain pen. You can add their proprietary ink cartridges (which also comes in a few different colors), or even use a converter for bottled ink. I like having this setup and maintenance because it feels more like the full experience. It’s a joy to write with, and definitely recommended for anyone who wants to try out a fountain pen.  

Next up, from the same company, is the [Pilot G2](<https://amzn.to/2LC4JrU>). First of all, this is probably far and away the most popular pen among people who want something higher quality than like a Bic pen. So one of the benefits is that they’re easy to buy at a number of retail stores. And I really like them, but there are so many better or comparable options. For me, the rubber grip isn’t as comfortable as the Zebra Sarasa or Uniball Signo ones, but that might just be personal preference. It’s a fairly light pen and I enjoy the weight of it. The ink is smooth and starts immediately (which is an issue I had with the Uni-ball Signo). I like the look and feel of it and it’s certainly a big step up from Bic Round Stics. I’ve definitely had issue with skipping in the pen far before the ink is empty. And once in a while (like a few pens in the pack), I had issues with the spring that caused just the tiniest wobble that was noticeable and annoying but not a dealbreaker.  

In my opinion, the Pilot G2 unfairly overshadows the [Pilot Juice](<https://amzn.to/2XZyKsd>) line. The Juice is definitely harder to acquire (I haven't seen it in a retail store but I buy my pens in bulk online anyway so it’s not a big deal to me). It lasts longer and has less issues with skipping or globbing and it’s less scratchy. It’s better built which means it’s more likely to last until it runs out of ink. There’s also tons of colors available so if you’re the type of person to write in different colors, this is a great option. Also the clip has a spring which is awesome (if you’re the type of person to break off the clip then we can’t be friends, sorry).  

I like retractable pens a little too much for me to really get into the [Pilot Hi-Tec-C](<https://amzn.to/2Y2hp23>) so I only have colorful versions for more artistic purposes rather than everyday use. That being said, there’s a .25mm version of these which takes ultra fine to an extreme and I love it. The body is very simplistic in design and not the most comfortable. With all of those things, I personally can’t use it as a daily use pen.  

I’m going to move on from Pilot for a moment to discuss some alternatives to the Juice that are also gel pens. The [Uni-ball Signo 207](<https://amzn.to/2SyPOj6>) has definitely been a joy to use. There is a newer version [Uni-ball Signo 307](<https://amzn.to/2XZz0Yd>) that has a different gel ink that sticks to glossy paper better and is a little smoother but it’s not enough of a difference for me to change. It’s a little thicker than the Pilot Juice if I’m not mistaken and I find it on the lighter side but comfortable and well designed. I had an issue with a bad batch (the pen didn’t really start straight out of the box) which has turned me off to these pens right now but the pens that did work were a joy to use. Definitely a great everyday pen. For ergonomic reasons or for people who just grip their pen tightly, the Premier version of this pen might be worth a try.  

The [Uni-ball Signo DX](<https://amzn.to/2Yg62mo>) (or UM-151 in Japan) is widely recognized by pen aficionados as the best gel pen there is. It’s capped rather than retractable so I stick to the Uni-ball Signo 207/307 or UM-138 (but the weight distribution of the UM-138 is a little weird for me, it’s heavier on top where the clicker is). It’s a shame though because capped pens are less exposed to air and more protective thus better for the pen. The off-black ink colors is amazing and definitely a good way to add some excitement in a way that’s still easily usable in the office, school etc. There is also a Needle version for those that prefer a thinner tip but it’s very thin and I always get worried that I’m going to break it or something. It’s a very consistent pen although the Hi-Tec-C may be smoother.  

Another top pick is the [Zebra Sarasa Clip](<https://amzn.to/2YuiJKB>). This is a recent discovery for me but I love the way it writes. With the 0.4 which should be thicker than the 0.38 that I usually use in other pens, my Chinese writing somehow looks better. This is due in large part to the fact that the lines are super sharp. For small handwriting or writing in a language with more complex shapes, this pen will definitely help with readability. The clip is also spring loaded and the click of the pen is super satisfying. Something about the tip isn’t as fun for me as the Uni-ball Signo 207/307 and I think the grip might be less comfortable but the differences are minor and regardless I keep coming back to this pen.  

I felt like I couldn’t leave off the [Muji Gel pen](<https://amzn.to/2YgtUq5>) just because of its popularity within my social circles. It’s a slightly cheaper pen than some of my other picks but in a pack of 10 or so, the price difference becomes negligible. That, however, assumes you buy in person (and it’s not available in the US outside of NYC which I think is a major reason this pen hasn’t grown in popularity) and buy other pens online. It’s super light, which for me is a negative but that’s personal preference. I’m not a fan of the super minimal design, especially because the texture becomes a little more slippery and uncomfortable before the Hi-Tec-C which also follows the minimal design. I also know there’s the hexagon one with the retractable design but I can’t always find that one. I realized when I used this pen on a daily basis that the ink is thinner and wetter than the G2 but I really only realized when I highlighted my words or wrote slowly. I don’t find it comfortable nor is it super convenient to buy and it smudges more than some other top picks. For the price though, it’s definitely a good addition.  

Some quick shoutouts in the gel pen category: the Zebra Sarasa Dry Gel pen and the Pentel EnerGel are both great for lefties due to the quick dry nature of the ink. The Pilot FriXion is basically the only good choice for erasable pens.  

I’m not as much of a fan of rollerball pens and definitely don’t have as much experience with them. The most popular option again comes from Pilot with the [Pilot Precise V5](<https://amzn.to/32LBIiV>) (or V7 if you prefer a little more thickness). It’s so smooth and feels great in the hand. It looks good and it’s just a classic. There’s not much to say; everyone knows this pen and for good reason.  

However, I have tried a few others that are worth a mention. The [Retro 51 Tornado](<https://amzn.to/32ISmQ8>) pens look amazing. They’ve got a cool vintage look with so many designs. Since I collect playing cards, I love the [ones with the face cards](<https://amzn.to/2YgFs8M>) on them. But there are also some professional workspace looking ones. Yes, these pens are way more expensive but you can feel the premium nature. Another one that is very similar to the Pilot Precise line is the [Uniball Vision Elite](<https://amzn.to/2K4117s>). It’s got nice feedback on the smaller tips and has great looking dark ink that is smooth. It again has the off black colors and it’s just a great pen. The [Morning Glory Mach Campus](<https://amzn.to/2XYuhpZ>) is another underrated pen and it’s especially worth noting that there is a .28 version of these and I love the amount of detail I can get with these.  

I don’t use ballpoint pens very often anymore. You have to use a little more pressure with a ballpoint pen, but they also last longer. One thing to note is that ballpoint pens should be stored vertically with the tip down while gel ink pens should be stored horizontally. The pen I recommend here is the [Uni-Ball Jetstream](<https://amzn.to/2SBD8Yv>). It’s sharp, fine, smooth, consistent, all the good qualities. Definitely the one to go to. Some other options include the Pilot alternative which is the Pilot Acroball or the Pilot Opt which has an extra long body to hold more ink, the Lamy 2000 which is great but expensive, and the Fisher Space Pen which is a super interesting concept, but not necessarily practically useful. Another thing to note is that the Parker Jotter will come up as a classic but it’s a decent but not great option.  

Lastly, in the pen section we have to talk about plastic tip pens for art purposes. And here the [Sakura Pigma Micron](<https://amzn.to/2SAbGKB>) is an easy pick. There are certainly better ones (Copic makes one for example) but like everything else Copic makes, it’s expensive. The Micron is also virtually indestructible and lasts a long time. I love using them for art reasons and it’s much nicer than sharpie-ing for outlines.  

Super random shoutouts: I love the black erasers from Muji but my all time favorite is the Staedler ones. Those really erase everything. I only use erasers when drawing so it’s super important to me that there’s no marks left. I honestly can’t tell pencils apart and like I mentioned above, I just buy cheap pencils in large quantities. That being said, I use [Prismacolor Premier](<https://amzn.to/2JVeazs>) as my drawing go-to pencils. Likewise they are also my go-tos for coloring pencils. I have one of those giant packs and I will literally never finish using them, so I have not tried anything else.  

I wanted to shout out my [pencil case](<https://amzn.to/2YaxWvZ>) as well. I bought it when it was recommended by some YouTuber that I don’t even watch but I love this pencil case. I like to have pencil cases that provide lots of different slots so I can keep my utensils organized (unlike the box ones where you just throw everything in the same pocket). You can store literally dozens of pens in here, it's got plenty of room. My one gripe would be that if you use a regular number 2 pencil, it can be a little too long if it’s a new one. I just keep sharpening until it’s the right size (but also I don’t use wooden pencils that often anymore anyway).  
