---
layout: post
title:  "My Tech EDC"
date:   2019-07-28 12:12:00 -0400
categories: tech
---

I carry a [Bagsmart bag](<https://amzn.to/2SBVl8l>), a recommendation from YourAverageConsumer and it’s wonderful. There are so many pockets and so much room. I love being organized with my belongings and feeling like there’s a slot for everything. It feels high quality and it’s not too expensive at $26 on Amazon. I literally carry it around everyday and I haven’t seen a single scratch or tear. And with the double layer, there is legitimately so much you can carry, which is great as a college student because I’m often not going back to my dorm room until bedtime.

There’s an outside pocket for you to store easy access documents or something like that. Because I stuff this bag full and sort of just toss it in my backpack, I would never keep a document that I don’t want bending in there. But if you have a few notecards for a class that’s too small for a folder or something, this would be a good place to put it. I’ve toyed with the idea of getting a Field Notes notebook or some other sort of little notepad for the times where I need a scrap of paper but haven’t yet.

The theme of the first layer of my bag is “cables and other connecting items”.

In the first pocket, which in the promotional images shows having an iPad Mini or Kindle (which I find silly, because I would just keep that in my laptop bag, not that I carry either anyway), I like to keep some of my bigger items.

First is a [Belkin 3-outlet surge protector](<https://amzn.to/2JNakte>). Belkin is a well-trusted brand for surge protectors and I use one of their giant ones in my dorm room. This thing has definitely been pretty useful. I wouldn’t call it necessary for college or anything nor do I use it often but it’s a lifesaver sometimes. I originally bought it for instances where coffee shops don’t have enough outlets etc. but for some reason I haven’t ran into that issue very often. School libraries also seem to have enough outlets so that’s not a worry. I did use it a few times when working with friends at the dining hall because the wall outlets are spread far apart enough that you can’t use different ones while still sitting with your friends. So really, it’s only handy in a group. The time that it really saved me though was when we were in San Diego travelling. It’s four people to a room and we each have a computer and a phone so that’s at least 8 devices. That and we all had the same schedule since it was a school trip meant that the extra ports were a (battery) lifesaver.

It takes a little bit of maneuvering sometimes since the surge protector is L shaped but in this same pocket I can also fit a laptop charger. I don’t necessarily recommend this charger (I bought it because it was on sale for $30 on Best Buy and both my brother and I needed a USB-C laptop charger so the cheaper it was, the better). I’ve used it very often for a year now and so far, so good. The connection definitely doesn’t feel as secure as other laptop chargers, I can see the USB-C port being bent slightly as gravity pulls down on it when it’s connected. It’s not a big deal but noticeable. Likewise, the part that goes into the outlet also has a fairly weak connection, but unless you’re connecting it above your head, I wouldn’t worry about it. So the reason I bought this is because I have the charger in my room behind the desk to prevent a tripping hazard. But that also means that it’s super annoying to take out (and especially to put back in). I rather just have a separate one for on the go use.

	The other side has 5 mini pockets made for cables. There’s a strap to keep them in place as well as a little pocket to hold them. The cables that I keep in here alternate depending on what I’m doing. I have never used a 3.5mm male to male cable and I had one as it came with a few headphones I bought but not useful at all to me so I eventually took it out. I do however keep a pair of iPhone headphones (just the ones that came in the box) for the times that my Bluetooth headphones run out of battery or when it’s just too hot to be wearing them. I also keep the lightning to headphone jack that came with my phone although I haven’t ever had the need for it.

	The other “connection” items that I keep here are my dongles. My MacBook Pro has no non-USB-A ports so it’s really useful to have a USB-C to USB-A/SD card/etc. It’s quite a bit more expensive if it has HDMI but as a college student, I kind of think it’s worth it. There’s been a number of weekends where my friends and I are watching something together (I’m not over how bad that last season of Game of Thrones was) and one of my friends always worked the projector so I didn’t truly have a need for it. But eventually I tried to watch a basketball game with a friend and we realized none of the TVs have cable channels so we had to connect to our laptops. Anyway, an HDMI port might be useful or an adaptor for Thunderbolt if you have a MacBook or VGA if projectors in your school still use those. I won’t bring this [Aukey Adaptor](<https://amzn.to/2JX3hhD>) around if I don’t expect to be connecting too many devices to my computer although it is ever present on my desk. I might also put this in my laptop bag for easy access. Instead I have these [Aukey dongles](<https://amzn.to/2ykCiWI>) that only do one USB-A port that I use if I’m just connecting my mouse for example.

For the purposes of charging devices, I have a USB-A to Lightning cable, USB-A to micro-USB cable, and a USB-A to USB-C cable. My go-to for anything cable related is Anker. I’ve never had an Anker product break on me yet and my cables get bent into all sorts of weird shapes. I like the [4 inch lightning cables](<https://amzn.to/2STDoT7>) because it’s just convenient not to be holding like a 3 feet long cable when using a portable charger. The rest of my cables came with devices so I haven’t had to buy a micro-USB cable yet. Then I have some miscellaneous things - a cheap pen if someone asks to borrow a pen and I know I’m never getting it back, a cheap pencil, and then a good pen for my own use if I happen to forget my pencil case or something. I also have a hair tie just in case.

	The second half of my bag is a little more random. It’s always recommended to back up your computer and with that in mind, I have a [Samsung T5 with 500GB](<https://amzn.to/2YrxTMi>). I haven’t done anything special with it yet, it just backs up my computer for now but in the future, I definitely want to try using an external SSD to play some games or something. Either way, the extra storage is very useful especially since I have my computer partitioned so each operating system takes up space and I have some dedicated to the Windows side. I also keep my smaller portable charger in here. Once again using an Anker product, this is the [Anker 10,000](<https://amzn.to/2LKaNyz>). It’s small and actually portable unlike my other one. It doesn’t leave a huge bulge in my pocket and is rather lightweight but will still charge my phone a few times. The other big item I sometimes carry in here is my multitool ([Leatherman Surge](<https://amzn.to/2ynZdQV>)) + wine bottle opener. As a student, I honestly use the bottle opener more than anything else. Sometimes the knife to cut through tape and open a box but that’s really it. Still, I love my multitool and thus find it nice to carry around. My multitool is also rather expensive so a cheaper alternative is the [Gerber Dime](<https://amzn.to/2Yr4guK>).

	Then some miscellaneous items. I carry around a [skull shaped multitool](<https://amzn.to/2SIcZau>) again mostly because it has a bottle opener. It’s much smaller and very light unlike my actual multitool so this is a more permanent fixture in this bag. I also have a SIM card tool just in case, a spare Aukey dongle, a flash drive, and a microfiber cloth for cleaning screens. I also carry a separate first aid kit in my bag but just in case I have a few bandaids in my tech bag, as well as condoms (hey it will keep your devices dry) and period pads. Since I collect playing cards, I’ll often also place one in this bag if I’m ever bored.

	If I’m travelling or otherwise keeping this bag around for a longer period of time, I’ll add a cheap pair of earbuds for my laptop (or again sometimes I just throw this in my laptop bag), and my [Jaybird wireless earbuds](<https://amzn.to/2ydW3iT>) for going to the gym or running. They last for a long time and are very durable so I can just stuff them in my pockets without an issue. I’m not an audiophile so I can’t really go into much detail beyond that it sounds good to me. I don’t find them super comfortable but it’s fine enough for an hour or two at the gym. And they don’t fall out which is a big plus when running. I’ll also bring a spare camera battery and SD card if I’m travelling with my camera. I might add the wall outlet part of my phone charger but the Belkin kind of takes care of that since it has 2 USB-A ports as well.

	One last thing to note is my [mouse](<https://www.amazon.com/Logitech-M705-Wireless-Marathon-Mouse/dp/B003TG75EG/ref=sxin_5_sxwds-bovbs?keywords=logitech+mouse&pd_rd_i=B003TG75EG&pd_rd_r=b169428e-c6c6-4e14-ade5-5c08458210db&pd_rd_w=doaOz&pd_rd_wg=YtPup&pf_rd_p=55b738be-ff12-48ad-8ad2-6a14afb06d32&pf_rd_r=PR3V735WWWVVRMCDFZMR&qid=1564287738&s=gateway>). I love using a mouse but I know it’s not always practical if I’m working in a coffee shop or something. I do have a small mouse that’s easily portable and can fit easily in the second layer of my bag but my everyday use mouse does not. I hate the small mouse because my hand drags awkwardly behind it and it’s just not fun to use. Because of issues with the trackpad on Windows (since the new Macbook doesn’t actually click anymore, there’s some minor annoyances), I find myself wanting to carry around a mouse more and more. So when carrying my mouse around, what I do is place it with my Belkin surge protector since they’re about the same thickness and instead lay my laptop charger flat and instead of wrapping the cable around it, wrap the cable separately to keep it as thin as possible.

	Outside of the BagSmart bag, I have just a few items. First up is another bag to hold my laptop. Here I use the [Lacdo 13” laptop bag](<https://amzn.to/310PDju>). It’s got a super soft texture inside and feels sufficiently sturdy and cushioning enough that I’m not too worried about dropping my bag down (within reason of course). I love the outside pocket because it’s big enough to store quite a few items. When travelling, this is where I put my passport and other easy access items since my laptop helps keep them straight. As mentioned before, I will also keep my USB hub and a pair of cheap headphones for my laptop in here.

	My headphones are the Sony WH-1000XM2. I do really want to [upgrade](<https://amzn.to/2K0h4Et>) but that’s too big of a financial burden for me right now. I love these headphones. They’re a little on the heavier side (which is the major reason why I want to upgrade, for added comfort) but they’re definitely manageable for several hours on end. I love the noise cancellation on this thing because subways are crowded and coffee shops are crowded and it truly blocks out all the noise. Last year I had a roommate that would just play Overwatch all day long while I was trying to work at my desk. I legitimately think I would’ve gone crazy if it weren’t for these headphones blocking out most of the noise. They fold up easily for storage and the case that it comes with is really all you need. I love the sound quality on this thing (the Bose noise cancelling ones sound a little further away to me) and the bass on this thing is definitely better than the Bose ones. The one flaw is that it only connects to one device at once. So once it’s connected to my phone, it can be really annoying to disconnect and then connect to my laptop. I sort of get around this by just turning off Bluetooth before I turn the headphones on but that’s still an inconvenience.

	I wouldn’t call my [speakers](<https://amzn.to/2SKNcyI>) and “every day” carry but in certain social scenarios, speakers really set the mood. Another Anker product here, these speakers are probably the best you can get at this price. It’s very affordable, sounds fine (better than phones/laptops do anyway) and loud enough to fill a dorm room although not much more than that.

	I also don’t carry my [big portable charger](<https://amzn.to/2SJ4NH2>) every day but this thing is a beast. A true lifesaver. I once forgot to bring a phone charger while I was away for 5 days. This thing kept my phone alive for 5 days while I was using it pretty extensively like I watched probably 5 hours of HIMYM and texted and surfed the web throughout the day. I took so many photos and my battery life was fine. It wasn’t even dead after these five days. Like I legitimately think I could’ve probably stretched it out to 8-10 days. This thing is amazing. If I’m not mistaken, it’s the largest size you can fly with and while expensive it’s a must have for me.

	I don’t know if a water bottle really counts as tech but it’s certainly an every day carry. I have a few different water bottles that I think are worth a mention. First, I have these water bottles with built in tea infusers and since I love cold brewing tea, this is a wonderful addition. You can easily take out the infuser once it’s done brewing and just use it as a normal water bottle. I haven’t had any issues with leaking or anything like that. Colleges give out a lot of water bottles in my experience and I got one with insulation to keep drinks hot/cold. I don’t drink hot drinks (iced coffee in winter is not as common outside of NYC by the way), but I can see the appeal of keeping drinks cool in the summer. I wouldn’t get a Hydro Flask because man those things are overpriced. There’s plenty of knockoffs to choose from. Anyway, the last one to mention is the [Blender Bottle](<https://amzn.to/30YMQHl>). I had no doubts that it would work for protein powder since that’s just powder. But it blew my mind when I could use it for peanut butter or chopped up bananas. It’s only about $10 on Amazon so if you don’t have a blender, this thing is awesome. I’m the type of student to wake up 15 minutes before my class starts with no time for breakfast so this will be great for dumping a bunch of ingredients in and shaking on my way to class. I’ve been making like a fake latte(?) by taking my cold brew coffee that I make overnight and putting it together with my protein powder + milk. I usually drink my coffee black but since I mix my protein powder with milk anyway, this helps tide me over until lunch in the morning.
