---
layout: post
title:  "The New York Times is a Monopoly"
date:   2020-07-18
categories: misc
---

I've been an avid reader of The New York Times since I began reading the news. That was back in fourth grade when my elementary school began distributing free copies every day. And for most of this time, I've been a big fan. I'm a fan because year after year, The New York Times publishes pieces that become Pulitzer winning journalism and deservedly so. I'm a fan because The New York Times investigates matters that few other publications would be able to do. I'm a fan because The New York Times publishes relevant news quickly.

Well...of course until it didn't. Now, I understand that The New York Times has a political bent. That's obvious. But not reporting on the Tara Reade allegations against Joe Biden really broke my trust. Reading any particular news source is a sign of trust. It is trust that they will report factually. It is trust that they will report on the things that matter to you. The New York Times can defend their decision as much as they want, but not reporting this for 19 days, until Biden was in a politically much more secure position is a horrible abuse of power. 

A sidenote: newspapers used to be way more partisan. Back in Federalists vs. Anti-Federalists times, for example, newspapers would be made in order to explicitly support one side or another. So as much as I like to complain about the liberal or conservative bent of certain news sources, at least I can appreciate that we have as a society moved much more in the direction of wanting our news to be factually sound. 

Whenever I see big news on social media like Reddit that I'm not sure is true, I go to The New York Times to fact check it. It felt incredibly surreal when the Tara Reade allegations came out and it was all over my social media, other mainstream media and yet The New York Times was silent. Now, of course, with the Tara Reade allegations, it was virtually impossible for anyone connected to the Internet to somehow miss this piece of news.  But this did make me think a lot more about the position of The New York Times. 

With a story as big as that one, it doesn't matter if any news source, even one as big as The New York Times, doesn't cover it. But The New York Times can't possibly (or in this case won't) cover everything. It is the stories that aren't as big as Tara Reade's that we should be worried about. There is regularly anger on social media about important news that people feel wasn't emphasized enough on mainstream media (for a recent-ish example: Australian bushfires). The New York Times and many other American publications are incredibly weak when it comes to international news. All of this should be a cause for concern because the New York Times increasingly determines what people - particularly young Democrats - know.

Anecdotally, as a college student in a rather liberal area, The New York Times is most everyone's favorite, most used, and often only mainstream source of news. Ben Smith, writing for The New York Times says something similar: "The gulf between The Times and the rest of the industry is vast and keeps growing: The company now has more digital subscribers than The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and the 250 local Gannett papers combined, according to the most recent data. And The Times employs 1,700 journalists — a huge number in an industry where total employment nationally has fallen to somewhere between 20,000 and 38,000". With younger readers of the news, the digital aspect of these older newspapers is far more important than print numbers. With the coronavirus pandemic ongoing, this is only going to be more true. While The New York Times might not be a monopoly of all news, it does have a monopolistic hold on young Democrats. 

I can't find statistics on how many people use The New York Times as their sole news source but I imagine among my peers, that number is quite high. Of course there will be avid news readers who read a variety of sources and others who read nothing at all. But among those only casually interested in the news, The New York Times has immense impact. Not only are they bound by what the Times reports on but also by what the Times chooses to push notifications on, what it chooses to put on the front page and so on and so forth.

The New York Times is also, in a very monopolistic move, gobbling up other related industries. The New York Times is known for its crossword and its cooking (both of which you have to pay additional for). While there are specific cooking-related magazines and sites that are still doing well (less now with the fall of Bon Appetite and the disasters they had), The New York Times is trying to be a one-stop site for everything. This is remarkably similar to the complaints people have had about Walmart or Amazon. It's not just the cooking section that The Times is working on. Top editors from Gawker, Recode, and Quartz have all left to join The New York Times and thus greatly expanding the Style, Business, and Technology sections of The Times. Kevin Delaney, the founding editor of Quartz, stepped down to join The New York Times, and shortly afterward Quartz had to lay off nearly half of its employees. The biggest example of this type of poaching is Ben Smith, who was the editor in chief of Buzzfeed News and now a media columnist. Ben Smith was also concerned about the expansion of The New York Times and what it could mean for journalism (his article, which I quoted earlier: [https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/01/business/media/ben-smith-journalism-news-publishers-local.html]. 

I could continue and discuss The New York Times expanding into the audio and visual world with podcasts (buying Serial, making their own podcasts like The Daily or The Argument) and documentaries (partnership with Netflix). But I'd like to give a bit of practical advice instead. I'm not saying that we should all stop using The New York Times. Instead, like trying to combat Walmart or Amazon, we should try to support smaller, niche-r sources more often. I know that individual action matters little but there are great journalism and news to be obtained elsewhere. At the very least though, we should never rely entirely on a singular source of information.

I might write about how I personally read the news another time but for now here is a stack that I think might be useful: The New York Times for general reporting of news, The Atlantic for the wacky and sometimes insightful opinions, The Economist for the international view, The National Review for intellectual conservatism, and Vox for more science and tech.