---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly #1"
date:   2020-09-11 10:00
categories: weekly
---

I'm starting a new blog series where I write about some of the things that I've been really enjoying. This might be books, podcasts, videos, apps, music, articles or really anything. I've been inspired by a few different people/sources - Tim Ferriss has a "5 Bullet Friday" where he lists 5 things he discovered that week, a programmer YouTuber I watch Kalle Hallden also does something similar, and finally, I feel like many different (especially tech-related) newspapers and magazines have written articles about the best things they've discovered in quarantine. Mostly, I would be sending probably either 3 or 5 things I've discovered (at any time, not necessarily within the week) every Friday. Sometimes, they'll be themed but most of the time not. 

This week it's themed around "big changes I made in quarantine":

1. Monitor - Given the amount of time that I've been staring at a screen lately, I finally decided to get myself a monitor. It's not huge - just 21.5" but compared to the 13" laptop screen I had before, this is way way more screen real estate. I still don't get those people who have triple screens but having a larger screen was definitely beneficial. Even without splitting my screen, having everything be bigger has been way less of a strain. 
2. Firefox - I was a Chrome user for a long time and while yes Google and other tech companies continue to track everything that I do, I would like to prioritize my privacy as best as I can. Firefox used to be a mess and basically totally unusable but it's leagues better now. It can handle anything that Chrome can, I have been able to transport over all of the extensions that I usually use and I can even customize it more than I can Chrome. It also has features like popping out videos that I use literally daily. There are still issues - getting the recently closed tab requires far too many clicks for example. But Firefox is much speedier than it used to be and I find it to be a worthwhile tradeoff. 
3. Quitting social media - I understand that this is still not a move that everyone can do due to various obligations but being more cognizant of how we use social media is important. What I wanted to establish was deliberate use of social media. I don't particularly care about the amount of time that I spend on social media each day or week so long as that time was deliberately spend. I think too often I thought I was going to check Instagram quickly only to realize that an hour had passed. I'm certainly not perfect either - sometimes I do still end up opening Reddit only to realize that I had already browsed Reddit that day and I do still spend too much time on YouTube. One thing that has helped me is to open up YouTube videos in a separate tab whenever I find myself on YouTube but not actually watch the videos. Often by the time I come back to it, I don't actually have much interest in the video anymore. Another thing I do is try to limit YouTube to lunchtime or after so that it doesn't impede on the most productive hours of my day.
4. I wasn't sure how to word this one but bringing my mini-fridge from college closer to my room instead of out in the living room (literally only 20 feet away) has managed to cut down on my plastic usage and spending on coffee. Humans are stupid and require the path of least resistance often. By making it easier (even though again the original task was not difficult) to get water from the fridge, I end up drinking more water from my Brita pitcher. My old coffee maker was mostly unused and was left broken because I only drink iced coffee and having to go back out to the living room to put it in the fridge and make ice was always too much work. Now that it is in my room, I use my coffee maker much more often and I enjoy using it more. I know the concept is not new by any means and I definitely do apply it to other things in my life but this was a huge physical change during quarantine for me.
5. Fixing my sleep schedule - In high school, I tried to do too much and ended up greatly sacrificing my sleep in order to accommodate the things I was doing. I've always been the person who jokes about how little sleep I got or even taken a little bit of pride in it because I thought that it meant that I was doing more. I was wrong. I genuinely think that I get as much done now with more sleep by shifting my sleep schedule. Whenever I didn't have obligations the next day, I would sleep late often between 4AM - 6AM and then wake up at noon or 1PM. These days I try really hard to sleep by 11. It doesn't always happen but at least I'm not nocturnal anymore. Of course some of this is just because high school was set on a much more rigid schedule that didn't allow for a good sleep schedule (I was often home at 10PM and had to leave home at 7AM). But I could've done a better job at keeping a consistent sleep schedule then and didn't really see the value in it. Waking up at a consistent time, even when there are no morning obligations helps tremendously for me not needing an alarm to wake up. The extra hours in the morning is way more useful to me than the hours after midnight when I'm much more prone to distraction. 

Anyway, thanks for reading! Future weekly posts are definitely not going to be this long but I hope you enjoyed this one. If you have a suggestion for the title, please let me know.