---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly #2"
date:   2020-09-18 10:00
categories: weekly
---

This week I decided to focus on my phone because (at the time of post anyway), iOS 14 will be released and thus dramatically change what my home screen looks like. (I'll be doing a favorite apps list soon)

1. Delete apps that you don't want to use. See Weekly #1 - I deleted Instagram and have basically never been on it and I think it's been going really great. But if you're not ready to take that step, sign out of apps that you don't want to use each time that you use it. It's infuriating. And it works! I never want to sign in and type my password again! 
2. On a very similar thread, move apps to locations where you can't see it. When you can't see it, you won't be inclined to open it as often. With iOS 14 and its new app page (true of Android as well), you don't need to have more than 1 page and on that page you shouldn't have apps that you want to limit the use of. 
3. Think about how you hold your phone. For me, I have small hands and so the hardest to reach parts of my phone is the top portion and the left-hand side (I typically use my phone with my right hand). The frequency of app usage should reflect the way you hold your phone. 
4. Turn off MOST notifications. You should be in control of when you use your phone, not the other way around. Use your phone and open apps when you want to, not as a reaction to the phone sending  you a notification. 
5. A small one: I'm definitely guilty of this but breaks shouldn't be spent on your phone. Research shows that breaks are more rejuvenating when spent outside and when spent with someone else. Even if we can't really be outside, look out the window and rest your eyes.