---
layout: post
title:  "How I Use Notion and Obsidian"
date:   2021-01-22 20:07:00
categories: productivity
---

I've been a big fan of Notion for a while now but I realized that it wasn't quite working for me. There's this idea that note taking apps fall into three categories: ones for architects, gardeners, and librarians. <a href='https://nesslabs.com/how-to-choose-the-right-note-taking-app'>Here's</a> a more in depth article about this if you're interested. But the basic idea is that an architect preplans a structure. Notion would fall into this category. In order to navigate Notion, you have to know where your pages are. A page can only have one parent page (though it can be linked elsewhere). I still love Notion and I still use it for planning my life. 

What I don't like it for though is note-taking from books. Here, I ran into the issue that I often read books about the same topic and I want to be able to reference notes I've taken from similar books. Notion does have a search feature (though I find it rather clunky) but linking to information on another page is quite difficult. I wanted to find something where these links are the primary focus. Many people really like Roam Research but as of now, there is no free tier. So I went for Obsidian. Obsidian uses markdown files that are stored locally, so even if Obsidian catastrophically fails, your notes will still be safe (albeit as simple markdown files). This can also be really frustrating though as you can't access these notes on another device without having to move them over yourself (or pay a premium syncing fee). For my personal use, I don't mind because I'm not using it for any sort of planning or anything and only using it for note-taking from media like books where I would be sitting down on my computer anyway. But if you need your notes on your phone, this would likely not be the best option. Other reasons why it worked for me is that it looks and feels quite similar to Visual Studio Code (I believe it was indeed based on VSCode) which is also how I edit the markdown files that turn into blog posts so there's a lot of similarity in workflow.

The last thing I wanted to mention was that it might seem like book notes follow quite well with the librarian way of notetaking. After all the information is likely to be quite static. Evernote is the most popular "librarian" note-taking app. I was disenchanted with Evernote a few years ago, as they decreased the quality of their free tier and I've largely not returned since. The other reason is that I really want my notes to be useful. I run into the issue often where I take a lot of notes on a non-fiction book I really enjoyed ... and then I never return to the notes. This is definitely an ongoing issue that I'm still exploring. Obsidian is one step in that direction though as connections is the main focus, and I hope the focus on connections will allow me to generate new ideas and remember more. 

In the future, I'll also like to start posting book notes here, at least for productivity and self-help books. 
