---
layout: post
title:  "Importance of Local Politics"
date:   2021-01-15 20:07:00
categories: politics
---

In America, voter turnout for presidential elections is much higher than for any local election. When my government teacher in high school asked the class who could name their State Senator, the results were abysmal. And this is among a group of people who elected to take a government class and thus presumably had an above-average interest in politics and governance. This is true of news consumption as well. Far more of us pay attention to national news than we do to local news. And even for those of us who do pay attention to local news, we probably still consume a hundred times more national news than we do local news. 

There are some really important issues here. For one thing, partisan identity becomes the primary driver for election into local politics. With people who are largely uneducated about local issues, it is only the party of the candidate that matters. I find that elections involving judges for example, often have no information available at all, and are banking solely on their party alliance. We are less connected to those politicians who should be closest to us. And those politicians are being judged almost entirely as a referendum on the president. Take Georgia - of course the Senate elections that recently occured there are still national politics - but much of the blame for the loss of the two Republican seats was placed on President Trump. Most of the reasoning behind why the seats flipped focused entirely on the president. This is a phenomenon that persists for state and local politics as well. 

But local politics should not be a referendum on the president. For one thing, local politics has such a large effect on our everyday lives that we owe it to ourselves to observe our local politicians and criticize with the same level of rigor that we use with national politicians. The relative anonymity of local politicians makes them more trusted by the American people when perhaps that trust is unwarranted. There are many efforts at transparency when it comes to national politics. There are tools that track how each House member or Senator votes, for example. Tools like that are much more rare when it comes to the state and city level. Yet state and city governments control so much of our everyday lives - far more than our national government. Whether or not potholes get fixed on our roads, among many other quality of life things, would likely fall under local governance. Many of us care deeply about public education which is largely controlled by local governments. Of course federal taxes are important but local taxes vary wildly and probably has a larger effect on one's take home pay. State governments get to decide how various welfare programs get executed. Federal minimum wage is rather unimportant if your state has a higher minimum wage. 

Here are a two things we can do to combat this issue:
- Attend and participate in your local community boards. NYC community boards are actually taking applications right now. Community boards only play an advisory role but they are important in expressing the opinions of a particular constituency. In New York City for example, city-wide policies may not work for every neighborhood. Community boards is where that might be expressed. They also help to plan local events.
- Support local newspapers. There are local newspapers for many communities like The Brooklyn Paper, for example. Local newspapers are endangered but they're very important. Local news that affect our everyday lives like a controversial pipeline for example, may not make it onto big publications like The New York Times. When people don't know about these things, that only further allows companies and other powerful figures to steamroll over communities.