---
layout: post
title:  "Making New Years Resolutions Work For You"
date:   2021-01-07 20:07:00
categories: projects
---

New Years resolutions often fail and yet they're made year after year. I can't say that I accomplished everything that I wanted to do in 2020 but I still think I'm qualified to give a little bit of advice. And of course, it's been a week since New Years but I figure this is about when people start faltering. All of this is things that have helped me, but of course individual mileage may vary.

Probably the biggest issue with New Years resolutions are that it is much more difficult to follow through than it is to set a goal. And yet many people feel a sense of accomplishment simply from setting the goal. My biggest advice here is to start before New Years even if just by setting up the mechanisms by which you will achieve your goal. My little brother is working on doing gratitudes every day and started in late December. It takes the pressure off the new year, gives you real accomplishment towards your resolution before the official start date, and allows you to figure out if the resolution is actually right for you or if you're approaching it the right way. 

This leads to another issue that leads to lack of commitment - sometimes people simply set the wrong resolutions. That's because most of us spend way more time looking forward than looking back and sometimes that's a mistake. Taking a few minutes to do daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly reflections won't take up that much of your time. Taking this time will allow you to better understand what the biggest areas of improvement in your life actually are. For a non-resolution example, people fall victim to this when shiny new upgrades come out for their devices all the time. Until you have regular frustrations with your phone or laptop, the happiness gained from getting an upgrade is going to be shortlived. Yes the new phone might have a better camera that you can notice but if you weren't having issues with photo quality before, you're not likely to notice it once the shiny new toy syndrome wears off. If you are setting resolutions with the ultimate goal of being happier or improving yourself, then it is worthwhile to make sure that you're setting your focus on the right resolution that will have the best payoff. Reflect on what actually causes you the most frustration and also importantly, reflect on what gives you the most joy.

There are other pitfalls to setting resolutions too. I think traditionally most resolutions are SMART goals or perhaps SMART goals with some aspects missing (lose x amount of weight or read x number of books, for example). This shouldn't stop you from setting non-traditional goals. To me, a resolution is simply resolving to do something (and thus be careful of outcome based goals like lose x number of pounds and make sure to spend time focused on what you can do). CGP Grey for instance uses a theme system, which works for him. For most people, I still think SMART goals are the way to go. But when it comes to New Years resolutions, I think there is one important caveat. For many goals, the time bound of one year is too long. 2020 is a perfect example of this. Reevaluating your goals on a monthly or quarterly basis is an important step and another area where reflection can make a difference. It's way more effective to notice in February that you're not following through on your goals or that you're actually not that interested in the goal than to realize in December as you're looking to set new ones. 

With respect to SMART goals, we already discussed the relevance of the goal and the time aspect. Attainable is another thing that people seem to fail at. I always aim for goals that set the bar high and is certainly pushing the limits of what I can accomplish - but still you know, attainable. But importantly, not achieving the exact number that I wanted isn't necessarily a "failure" to me. This is why I use a percentage based system to evaluate my goals. If I don't read the exact number of books I set out to this year, but still made significant improvement over last years number (or made improvement based on quality/some other measure), then I didn't fail. I just didn't hit the ceiling of what I could do. 

I guess the theme of this article is reflection because besides reflecting on your life before setting a goal, and reflecting on your commitment to the goal during the year, I also think reflection is an important part of goal-setting itself. When setting new goals, I find it really useful to make visible my "why", usually in the same place where I track my progress. And almost always the first "why" that you come up with is a lie, so dig deeper. We have selfish reasons for setting goals, embrace them. But when making the goal, you should also reflect on how you will accomplish the goal and what the most likely reasons for failure are (and how to mitigate them). For example, if my goal were to write a book, then I could accomplish this by setting aside two hours every day to write 2000 words every day. My most likely reasons for failure are probably that I either get busy and thus end up using my dedicated writing time for something else or that writing 2000 words is really difficult and I can't accomplish it within the 2 hours. Mitigation tactics might include: cancelling other plans so that I keep the two hours open for writing, have some sort of accountability method in order to ensure that I am on pace to finish and thus more likely to actually spend the time writing, or dedicating more time on the weekend if I don't finish writing 2000 words during the weekdays. This combined with regular reflection on how your progress is going will allow you to know what you can implement to help you accomplish your goals but also allow you to use the interventions before it's too late.

Finally, Atomic Habits by James Clear and plenty of other books have discussed the importance of our systems. There are many things in our lives that we can't imagine living without. In order to accomplish our goals, even as we get busy, we have to make sure that the actions associated with our goals are also things that we can't imagine our lives without. For athletes, the idea of not working out is unfathomable. If we want to be fitter or work out more, working out too has to be a deeply ingrained part of our lives such that when we get busy, the idea of cutting working out is unfathomable. Barring extenuating circumstances, for the things that we hold most dear, we will make time for them. For someone who claims not to have time to work out, they should have an honest assessment about whether or not every single hour of the ~16 waking hours of the day has been spent on a priority higher than working out. We can't accomplish everything, but we should aim to accomplish things in line with our priorities.

2020 has been an interesting year to say the least. For many people who fell short of their goals this year, the pandemic is easy to blame. And of course not being totally productive during this time (or any time!) is totally understandable. But, there will always be external things that we can blame when we don't accomplish the things we set out to do. We should be truthful to ourselves though and seek out those things that we can change. I wish everyone the best of luck with their goals in 2021 and beyond. To help keep myself accountable, my goals paage on this site has been updated for 2021 and I will be updating it periodically.