---
layout: post
title:  "Buying New Technology"
date:   2021-01-29 10:00:00
categories: tech
---

I'm prone to shiny new toy syndrome where I get really excited about a new thing for a while but then quickly move on to the next new thing. And I work in the tech industry and I get really excited about new technological advances. But it can be really difficult to figure out what upgrades are truly worth the cost. New phones, laptops, PC parts come out every year. And these are usually expensive purchases.

Most people intuitively know that the excitement they have when buying something new is likely going to be short lived and yet it's really hard to ignore the excitement when trying to make an accurate assessment of a product. With technology a lot of the advice for general purchases still hold true. Experiences lead to more happiness than materialistic items. Money used to cultivate relationships might be money better spent than on items. Waiting some amount of time before actually buying the item to make sure that it isn't a spur of the moment decision. And something I always consider is the frequency of use and size of upgrade. Of course we want to make big changes rather than small ones when upgrading, so if your computer is lagging years behind your phone, then the computer is probably the better upgrade, given that we use both about as equally often. 

One difference when buying tech though is that tech is often a combination of "means to an end" and "end itself". What I mean is, if we spent money on a new phone because we want the status of having the new phone, then the end goal was to get that phone. On the other hand, most of us use our technology for some sort of work, or to keep in communication with others, or plenty of other tasks. We might be considering an upgrade as a way to better do our daily work. I think most people are really bad at estimating what they really need. I've said this before but I have met very few people who get a MacBook Pro over a MacBook Air who could truly take advantage of the extra power, because most college students that I know really just use a web browser. I make effort to try to notice the areas where I am feeling frustration, rather than think about the products that I want. If I notice that I consistently do not go over storage on my previous devices, I'm not going to upgrade the storage on my new device, because chances are I'm not really going to change my usage very much. Eliminating stressors is the most important thing. So, if on the flip side, you consistently feel frustration because you have to delete stuff to fit new stuff, then upgrading your storage should be prioritized even if it is "ultimately unnecessary". 

And finally I wanted to address the fact that money does not always have to be well spent or optimized. We can't explain human interest sometimes. Like for me personally, going to a coffee shop and getting a coffee is an experience that I greatly look forward to and genuinely makes my day better. I have a coffee maker, nor is coffee ever really a necessity. But that experience is something that I take joy in and I am not going to stop just to optimize every dollar spent. Enthusiasts across many different disciplines can probably relate to the feeling of being inexplicably excited about what might seem like a minor upgrade to the laypeople or what might seem like niche product that no one would actually buy. As a tech enthusiast, I get excited about niche phones that would be impractical in daily life. I get excited about RGB lights in my keyboards and PC parts. I think it's silly to feel shame about what we get excited for. Many people might want to be more minimalistic or at least not as bound by materialistic things but I embrace the materialistic monkey brain that I have. RGB lights is obviously an unnecessary upgrade and yet every time I get great joy from seeing the lights that I have. 